# Mini-Java-Grammar-Parser
Mini Java Grammar Parser and AST Generator implemented in python using ANTLR API

## Code Structure
### Mini Java Grammar Link which this project is based on:
http://www.cs.tufts.edu/~sguyer/classes/comp181-2006/minijava.html

### *grammars* directory
Includes two grammar files, one leverages attributes which is used in the actual code to help us keep more detailed info about each parsed node.

### *gen* directory
generated files by the ANTLR plugin in pycharm according to grammars written in the *grammars* directory which were discussed earlier.

### ASTGenerator.py
Consists of three main classes:
> - **ASTListener** which is responsible for parsing the tree of a given MiniJavaGrammar-compliant code and building child and brother relationships needed for an AST.
> - **ASTGenerator** is responsible to convert the given parse tree with child-brother info to a binary tree which is the essence of an AST.
> - **ThreeAddressCode** is a class which does somewhat of a mimic of an actual 3-address code generation procedure given the AST.

### *sample* directoty
Consists of four files:
> - **Sample.java** is a sample Java code which is consistent with the grammar in previously mentioned link.
> - **parseTree.png** is the parse tree of the *sample.java* code according to the given grammar in the link. The parse tree was generated using the ANTLR plugin for pycharm.
> - **AST.png** is the AST generated by the program given the aforementioned code in *sample.java* based on the given grammar.
**Note:** Blue and green edges delegate brotherhood and parent-child relationships, respectively. Child nodes have *(c)* mark on them for emphasis.
> - **Instructions.txt** is the mimical 3-address code generated based on the AST depicted in *AST.png*

**Note:** *Digraph.gv* file was generated during runtime.

## How to run the project
This project was implemented using pycharm. 
You can easily install the *ANTLR4* plugin using the IDE.
### Other essential dependencies
> - networkx
> - matplotlib